# Othello
An implementation of the board game Othello in python

The rules to othello can be read here (https://www.ultraboardgames.com/othello/game-rules.php). In this game, the player always plays as the white pieces and goes first. The Computer is the black pieces and goes second.

The current automated player 2 is set up to use a recursive min-max algorithm, with a maximum search depth of five. This is difficult to beat, however if the human player sacrifices an early lead and relentlessly aims for the edge and corner pieces, the automated player 2 can be beat.

The recursive min-max algorithm is great, but it has a few limitations. Firstly, as the depth of the search (how many moves into the future) is increased, the time to pick a move increases exponentially. With a depth of 5, this process could take several minutes during the middle of the game. This is not fun to wait for, and also limits how far the computer can calculate future board state possibilities. While the min-max algorithm picks the best possible move, the depth limitation allows the human player to apply strategies early on the set them up for a win by the end of the game.

At some point in the future, I want to improve the automated player 2. I will most likely do so using a deep learning model. I had trained one previously on data from randomly generated games to see what a model could learn (with a script not uploaded here). The model was able to learn to only make valid moves. This was exciting, however, since it was trained on games that were generated by random moves, the model's moves did not have a strategy to them. This is still exciting though, as it proves that even a simple model with several fully connected linear layers can 'understand' the rules of the game and how it can move. When I have time in the future, I will work on a model to be a smart player of the game othello, and update the game with that aspect replacing the min-max player 2.

When a better automated player 2 is created, I will work on making the game GUI based, as right now it plots the board as an image, but takes player input from the command line.
